AI, especially neural network based models undergo rapid progress in the last ten years. As a consequence, AI-aided scientific computing also attracted much attentions and gained significant developments. Featured examples are AI-aided protein structure predictions (based on encoder and decoder), machine-learning force fields/energy potentials (based on deep neural network or graph neural network).    

Generally, researchers tend to directly predict the properties (e.g. overall structure and binding affinity) of a biological macromolecule using AI, but to embed AI models in the current simulation schemes (e.g. Molecular Dynamics) in the inorganic systems. This is because biological systems usually have well-defined basic units (e.g. amino acids or base pairs) and the most important properties is less sensitive to the intra-unit atomic coordinates. However, in the case of inorganic systems, the chemical space is more diverse and the electronic and spintronic properties of the frontier band can be significantly influenced by a single atom in the crystal. Besides, the feature extraction of atoms is even harder because of their complex quantum mechanic behaviors, whereas, the basic units in a biological system can usually be depicted by the classical mechanics. 

Despite those limitations, one feasible goal within the scope of direct prediction of inorganic properties is to explore the structural-property relationship. This is to say, if we focus on a specific group of well-defined inorganic systems (e.g. chalcogenides), the atom connections and the underlaying interactions are usually similar. So, the only factor can dramatically change its properties is the atom coordinates. So, we can mimic the current way of feature extraction and modeling for biological macromolecules, employ the graph neural network to depict the atom connections and using metrics, e.g. the energy difference, the band shape differences to benchmark the performance. This model can help to discover structural-property relationships that can be overlooked by manual analysis.   
